core conversation number four the brain
needs boundaries talk to your kids about
boundaries limits and rules because they
let them know what to expect and help
them feel safe like Society has rules
families should as well but not too many
one of my OCD patients posted 108 rules
on the refrigerator which was
overwhelming for everyone
here are some of our favorite family
Rules one tell the truth honesty builds
trust if you make this a family rule you
have to tell the truth kids do what you
do what you model not what you tell them
to do for kids who have trouble with the
truth I do an intervention called Truth
training I have parents say sometimes
I'm going to ask you about things I
already know the answer to and if you
tell me the truth I'll be really happy
and if not there will be
consequences rule number two we treat
each other with respect for younger kids
spell it out this means no yelling
hitting kicking name calling or put
Downs
disrespect breeds conflict isolation and
loneliness model respect and make it get
the expected Norm in your family and it
will help kids build positive
relationships with others three one of
my favorite rules do it mom or dad say
the first time parents often tell me
they have to tell their kids to do
something five or 10 times if you tell a
child to do something 10 times then you
get upset you're teaching them they
don't have to obey until you lose
control
when we tell one of the kids to take out
the trash for example if he or she
doesn't start moving within a reasonable
time we'll say you can do it now or you
can have this consequence and then you
still have to do it it's up to you we
train them that we're serious the first
time we say things when you communicate
and reinforce clear expectations kids
generally get the message just do it in
a firm and kind way always rooting for
their success four put things away you
take out we believe in building
accountability and
responsibility even in small children
chores and work build
self-esteem five ask for permission
before you go somewhere even even though
many kids complain about it parents need
to check where their kids are who
they're with and what they're doing kids
hate when you check and they hate it
more when you don't because they think
you don't care of all the rules our
favorite one is don't make a problem it
encompasses all the rules